 (CNN)The embattled police chief who oversees aviation officers at Chicago's two airports is stepping down. 
Richard Edgeworth, the subject of a CNN investigation into why his officers could not carry guns or respond to an active shooter, will leave the Chicago Department of Aviation on April 15, according to his resignation letter.
"It has truly been an honor and privilege to serve," the letter says. "As a team, we have demonstrated day-in and day-out why our Chicago Airport System is the best. You are the 'A team.' "
Officers at O'Hare International and Midway International airports took a vote of no confidence against Edgeworth last year, saying morale had plummeted under his leadership. 
CNN revealed in December that the aviation police officers were not allowed to carry guns. The officers were also told to "run and hide" in the event of an active shooter at the airports. 
Several aviation police officers told CNN that the policy put them in danger and also compromised overall safety. Many of the officers work at suburban police departments or are military veterans with combat training. 
When CNN approached Edgeworth outside his office last year, he refused to answer any questions about the run-and-hide policy and walked away. 
Aviation police officers work along with armed officers from the Chicago Police Department, which is the primary law enforcement agency at O'Hare and Midway.
The Chicago Department of Aviation told CNN in a statement that it commends Edgeworth for his "years of service" and "steadfast dedication to safety."
"His leadership and commitment to emergency preparedness and training strengthened partnerships with the airlines and over 30 local, state and federal agencies at O'Hare and Midway International Airports. We wish him well as he returns to his post at the Chicago Fire Department, where he previously served for 28 years," said Chicago Department of Aviation Commissioner Ginger Evans.
Aviation police: 'No guns' policy a threat to travelers 
